# I - Conceptual Questions
## Would you rather have too many false positives, or too many false negatives? Explain.
<font size="3">The question relates also to the exercice part (as we see further). In a typicall system taking decision in production usually one cares about its precision, i.e. among the items classified as positive how many are correctly classified. The number of false positives would measure how many are wrongly, in other words more false positive we have less the precision of the system. On the other hands, the real positives are either correctly classified by the system or wrongly in which case they are false negatives. Therefore, too many false negatives means the system is recovering few of the items it could. As the precision of the sytem increases, as it gets more strict about its decision to assign positive labels, and as its recall decreases. Depending on the system one may give more importance to precision, or recall. In practise, the business unit has to define based on the porduct at hand the level of requirement. In the remainder, we will see that to put the categorizer in production we suggest a precision level of  99%. That's of course hypothetical and based on our assumptions of how the categorizer will be used in production.</font>

## Give an example from your work experience of selection bias. Was it important? In general, how can you avoid it?
<font size="3">Selection bias is of course crucial as it may introduce a difference between offline metrics as typically measured on a test set, and online metrics when running an A/B test. This can typically happen when you have for example a recommender system running in production such that sampling directly from the data observed in production leads to a bias of selection imposed by the recommender system. Imagine that the recommender system is flowed, and never suggest any item from class A, this may lead if we are not carefull to produce a training data set without any item from class A since its never displayed by the system in production.

In the context of this exercice for instance, we are given  a training set, and a test set but nothing is said about how this data is selected. As we will see further, the class distributions are very different between training and test and indicates a selection procedure especially on the training (a stratified sampling as indicated by round numbers). It's very likely that the person who produced the training data sampled each category in a specific way to ensure all categories are present in the training set at sufficent level (this is typicall in ML), even though the real observed distribution differ (it may be that the test set follow the real distribution, but we have not enough information to be assertive on this). 

To avoid selection bias, one have to use different selection strategy, as stratified sampling based on specific features as category, or CTR, etc. The idea would be to cover all cases that may lead to a bias. Another technique would consist of introducing randomization in the production system. For instance, one way could be to sample the recommendation based on the probability score and so always give the chance to not recommended items to still show up. </font>

## What is the difference between Bayesian Estimate and Maximum Likelihood Estimation (MLE)? Can you think of an example where Bayesian estimate is the most appropriate method? Another example in which MLE is the most appropriate method?</font>
<font size="3">in MLE one would usually directly maximize the likelihood of a class, or its conditional likelihood in order to infer a model (values of parameters). A typical example is when training a logistic regression model that consists of finding the parameter values that maximize the conditional likelihood of the data. This is very appropriate when we have enough data, such that each feature is correctly estimated. However, when we do not have enough data  (leading to the parameters estimation to lack confidence) one would rather use a bayesian approach. In that context, we usually have a believe (for instance on parameter values) that come in form of a prior distribution. By so doing, one can take decision based on an evidence that is marginalized on the full distribution of the parameter set and hence account better for the variance of the estimates. A simple way to see this is that if you consider a normal prior, as one starts having more and more data, confidence increases and leads to nearly a null variance, in which case an MLE is great. However, for the lack of data case, the prior believe will smoothen the decision to avoid a wrong estimation based on few observations. In practise, a Bayesian model can be very effective for the long tail and rare events, while the MLE would work fine on the head (which if we are facing a power law as is usually the case will cover 80 to 90% of the domain).</font>


